Why the BSDs should not blame the USL vs BSDi lawsuits for Linux's dominance
===========================================

[id="bsd_blame"]
It is always easier to blame your problems on someone else, the world at large
or a past event.  It is also usually wrong because only you can fix your
problems, and the fault may be at you.

Here are some examples: from my impression most Israeli Jews blame the
Lebanese, the Hizbullah, Syria and/or Iran with whatever violent acts happen in
the Israel-Lebanon border. I, on the other hand, despite being an Israeli
citizen, a Jew by lineage (but a secular one), and an Israeli resident, who
likes living in Israel, and does not support the complete abolishment of the
State of Israel â€” blames Israel for all that. It's not that I think the our
enemies are good and benevolent, it's just that I think Israel is doing many
things wrong, and must not shift the blame for its own problems.

When I wrote about it in https://shlomif.livejournal.com/10530.html[my blog] I
received two "you are wrong" comments from two Israeli Jews, and a Jewish
coworker of mine scolded me for my spite, after greeting other good morning in
the workplace. Now I also think Israel should adopt
http://shlomifishswiki.branchable.com/Saladin_Style/[Saladin's long
under-recognised approach] to justice, peace, and good will through
forgiveness, nobility, trust, and chivalry which helped him convert the Knights
Templar from batshit crazy "religious" and violent zealots (who were much less
sane than even the most zealous 21st century Muslim activist) into people who
were rational, non-violent, mostly sane, and refused to fight his forces even
under the orders of their religious leaders. (And naturally, he didn't actively
harm the innocent civilians who had previously suffered from the Knights' reign
of terror.)  I believe a modern take on this approach, will work with Hizbullah
militants as well, but our bylaws necessitate "punishing" the offenders by jail
time.

Anyway, I later talked with a man who resided in Lebanon on
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freenode[Freenode] and despite whatever hardships
he may have suffered from Israeli air raids (hard to know how much because the
media coverage is skewed) told me that he thinks Lebanon is to blame. I later
pointed him to my https://www.shlomifish.org/[home site] where I published some
essays and stories on this issue (and many others) and he later emailed me
saying that he agreed with my opinions.

When I told all that to a different Israeli, Jewish, and secular friend, in a
different Internet chat, he told me and the other participants that making
peace would be easy if the two of us were the leaders of Israel and Lebanon.

'''

Here is another example: many people have placed the blame on the poor economic
performance of some former British empire colonies on the former British
occupiers.

But as https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p-fRo5-p9hE[Monty Python brilliantly and
amusingly pointed in their sketch "What have the Romans done to us"], they were
not quite so bad, and the blame was on the former colonies' governments
mismanagement.

And for Monty Python's defence, while that sketch appears to be pro-Roman
and anti-Judean, they have many other scenes in https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monty_Python%27s_Life_of_Brian[the film] portraying the Romans
as stupid and incompetent. Monty Python never took any prisoners.

'''

So what does it have to do with BSD? OK, so the
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UNIX_System_Laboratories,_Inc._v._Berkeley_Software_Design,_Inc.[USL
vs. BSDI] trial took place and it was ugly, threw 386BSD and its forks into
some confusion and uncertainity, and may have caused some loss of time and man
power, but do you really think this is the only reason that Linux and GNU are
nowadays more popular than the possibly superior FreeBSD, NetBSD and OpenBSD?

The trial was over by 1994, and I recall being instructed to use FreeBSD
instead of Linux on a Pentium I "workstation" desktop box in 1996 back when I
worked for
https://www.shlomifish.org/prog-evolution/shlomif-at-cortext.html[Cortext web
design] because they told me it was much more mature and better, and were
probably right. Paul Graham http://paulgraham.com/javacover.html[thought] that
FreeBSD and not Linux would diminish Sun's server market as late as 2001, when
I already used Red Hat Linux or Mandrake Linux as a desktop OS and was happy
with my choice.

But now the Linux kernel and its GNU / etc. runtime are much more popular
than the BSDs despite whatever technical drawbacks they may have, not because
of the USL vs BSDI court case, but because of superior (or possibly less
inferior) management by the forces who developed and supported them.

The BSDs should take responsibility for their own problems rather than blame it
on a distant past event that had limited influence back then, and had very
little influence since.

Guess what? I think it may not be too late. If say FreeBSD is happy being a
niche OS, then they can remain that now. If they want to become more popular
than Linux (and possibly overtake both Windows and macOS on the desktop - why
think small?) they should
https://www.joelonsoftware.com/2000/06/03/strategy-letter-iii-let-me-go-back/[admit
it] and try to see what Linux/etc. is doing better, and how they could catch up
and improve upon it. I have many theories about what the BSDs may be doing
wrong, but they are out of the scope here, and others may have different
suggestions and may disagree with me.

But to https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Fault_in_Our_Stars[quote Shakespeare]
"`The fault, Dear Brutus, is not in our stars`".
